>> Hey, everyone out there on the livestream. Welcome. Welcome. Thanks for coming. If you
have any questions, please put them into the comment section. And with that, without further
ado, I think we should kick it off. So here we go. Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode
220, recorded February 10th, 2021. I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> And I'm Brian Okken.
And we have a special guest, Hannah, welcome.
- Hello.
- Hannah Stepnik, welcome to the show.
It is so great to have you here.
- Thank you, I'm happy to be here.
- It's good to have you.
It's so cool, the internet is a global place.
We can have people from all over.
So we've decided to make it an all Portland show this time.
We could do this in person actually.
Well, not really because we can't go anywhere,
but theoretically, geographically anyway.
Yeah, so all three of us are from Portland, Oregon.
Very nice.
Before we jump into the main topics, two quick things.
One, this episode is brought to you by Datadog.
Check them out at pythonbytes.fm/datadog.
And Hannah, do you just want to give people
a quick background on yourself?
- Yeah, so I'm Hannah.
I have written a book, which is weird to say,
about pandas, but I also just go around
give talks at various conferences on Python.
So yeah, like I gave a talk on like a legacy code base
or re-architecting a legacy code base recently.
And then--
- That sounds interesting and challenging.
- Yeah.
- What was the legacy language?
- So it was Python.
It was like a Flask web application.
And then also the front end of it was Vue, like Vue.js.
- Oh yeah.
So yeah, that's been a fun project.
That was through work.
But I think as developers, you're
pretty much always working with some form of legacy code.
Just depends on how legacy it really is.
Well, what could be cutting edge in one person's viewpoint
might be super legacy in another.
Like, we're on Python 3.5.
You wouldn't believe it.
Right.
Yeah.
Very cool.
Well, it's great to have you here.
I think maybe we'll start off with our first topic, which
is sort of along the lines of the data science world,
some tie-ins to your book.
And of course, whenever you go to JetBrains,
you've got to run your CLI to accept the cookies, which
is fantastic.
And so this topic, this first topic I want to cover,
is from JetBrains.
And it's entitled, "We Downloaded 10 Million Jupyter
Notebooks."
I almost said 10,000.
"10 Million Jupyter Notebooks from GitHub.
Here's what we learned."
So this is an article or analysis done by Elena Guzakharina.
And yeah, pretty neat.
So they went through and downloaded a whole bunch of these notebooks and just analyzed
them.
And there's many, many of them are publicly accessible.
And a couple years ago, there were 1.2 million Jupyter notebooks that were public.
As of last October, it was eight times as many, 9.7 million notebooks available on GitHub.
That's crazy, right?
- Wow.
- Yeah.
So, this is a bunch of really nice pictures and interactive graphs and stuff, so I encourage
people to go check out the webpage.
So, for example, one of the questions was, "Well, what language do you think is the most
popular for data science just by judging on the main language of the notebook?"
Hannah, you want to take a guess?
- Oh, yeah.
Python, for sure.
Without a doubt.
- That's for sure.
The second one, I'm pretty sure no one who's not seen this,
there's no way they're gonna guess.
It's Nan.
We have no idea.
Like we look, we can't tell what language this is in there.
But then the other contenders are R and Julia.
And often people say, oh yeah, well Julia,
maybe I should go to Julia from Python.
Well, maybe, but that's not where the trends are.
Like there's 60,000 versus 9 million.
You know, as the ratio, I don't know what that number is,
but it's a percent of a percent type of thing.
- Wow.
- They also talk about the Python 2 versus 3 growth
or difference.
So in 2008, it was about 50% was Python 2.
And in 2020, Python 2 is down to 11%.
And I was thinking about this 11%.
Like, why do you guys think people,
there's still 11% there hanging around?
- I mean, I would guess, speaking of legacy applications,
Probably it's just hasn't been touched, but yeah
Very likely the ones that were like the original
2016-17 ones that were not quite there. They're still public right get up doesn't get rid of them
The other one is I was thinking, you know, a lot of people do work on Mac
Or maybe even on some Linux machines that just kind of came at the time with Python 2
So they're just like well, I'm not gonna change anything. It just I just need to view this thing
I don't I have Python problem solved right they didn't know that there's more more than one Python
There's a good breakdown of the different versions another thing that's interesting is looking at the different
Languages not languages different libraries used during this so like numpy is by far the most likely used and then a ties
Pandas and matplotlib and then scikit-learn and then OS actually for traversing stuff
and then there's a huge long tail and they also talk about combinations like
Pandas and NumPy are common and then pandas and then like seaborn scikit-learn pandas numpy matplotlib and so on as a combo
And so that's really interesting like what sets of tools data scientists are using
Yeah, and then another one is they looked at deep learning libraries and pytorch seems to be crushing it in terms of growth
But not necessarily in terms of popularity. So it grew
1.3 times or 130% whereas tensorflow is more popular
but only grew 30% and so on.
So there's a lot of these types of statistics in there
I think people will find interesting
if they want to dive more into this ecosystem.
You know, it's one thing to have a survey,
you can go fill out the survey,
like ask people, what do you use?
You know, what platform do you run on?
Vue.js or Linux?
And like, okay, well that's not really a reasonable question
but I guess Vue.js, you know?
But if you just go and look at what they're actually doing
on places like GitHub, I think you can get a lot of insight.
- Yeah, for sure.
- Yeah, I know I use, like I'll go to GitHub pretty frequently, like at work,
when I'm, you know, just like browsing, like, "I wonder how you do this thing,"
or like, "What's the most common way to do this?"
- Yeah, absolutely.
- Just look up like what's the most popular.
It's always a pretty good sign if a lot of people are using it.
- It is.
One thing I should probably make better use of is I know they started adding
dependencies, like, "Oh, if you go to Flask, it'll show you Flask is used,"
and these other GitHub repos and stuff.
Like you could find interesting little connections.
I think, oh, this other project uses this cool library
I know nothing about, but if they're using it,
it's probably good.
- Yeah, for sure.
- Yeah, I love the dependency feature
of looking who's using it.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So Brian, you gonna cover something on testing this time?
- Yeah, I want--
- Before we make you.
(laughing)
- I wanted to bring up something we brought up before.
So there's a project called pytest Python Path,
and it's just a little tiny plugin for pytest.
And we did cover it briefly in way back in episode 62,
but at the time I brought it up as,
so, okay, so I brought it up as a way to just shim,
like be able to have your test code, see your source code,
but as just like a shortcut,
like a stopgap until you actually put together
like proper packaging for your source code.
But the more I talk to real life people
testing all sorts of software and hardware even,
that's a simplistic view of the world.
So thinking of everybody is working on packages
is not real.
There's applications for instance,
that they're never going to set up,
hold their code together as a package.
And that's legitimate.
So if you have an application
and your source code is in your source directory
and your test code is in your test directory,
it's just your tests are just not gonna be able
to see your source code right off the bat.
So I--
- What's more tricky is depending on how you run it,
they will or they won't.
- Yeah.
- Right, if you say run it with PyCharm
and you open up the whole thing
that can like put together the paths, you're all good.
But if you then just go into the directory and type pytest,
well, maybe not.
- It doesn't work.
And it just confuses a lot of people.
And so more and more, I'm recommending people
to use this little plugin.
And really, the big benefit is it gives you,
it does a few things, but the biggie is just
you can add a Python path setting
within your pytest any file,
and you stick your any file at the top of your project.
And then you just give it a relative path
to where your source code is like source or SRC
or something else.
And then pytest from then on,
we'll be able to see your source code.
It's a really simple solution.
It's just, I-
- That's way better than what I do.
I don't think it's a stopgap.
I think it's awesome.
So.
- Yeah, I totally agree.
What I do a lot of times is certain parts of my code,
I'm like, this is gonna get imported.
So for me, the real tricky thing is Alembic,
the database migration tool and the tests and the web app.
And usually I can get the tests in the web app to work
just fine running them directly.
But for some reason, Alembic always seems to get weird,
like working directories that don't line up in the same way.
So it can't import stuff.
So a lot of times I'll put at the top of some file,
you know, go to the Python path and add, you know,
get the directory name from dunderfile
and go to the parent, add that to the Python path.
And now it's gonna work from then on basically.
And this seems like a nicer one,
although it doesn't help me with Olympic, but still.
- But it might, you might be able to add
the Olympic path right to it, so.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Very cool, so it's, yeah, go ahead, Hannah.
- Oh, I was just gonna say, yeah, like,
this is something I like pretty much every time
I set up a new project, I always have to screw with the Python path.
I always run it initially and then it's like, "Oh, can't find blah, blah, blah."
And I'm like, "Oh, here we go again."
But I usually always run my projects from Docker though, so I just hard code that stuff
like just directly.
Yeah, once you get it set up.
Yeah, that's cool.
Yeah.
Nice.
I dream of days when I can use Docker again because I have an M1 Mac and it's in super
early, early beta stages.
- I know.
- Yeah, it's all good.
I don't mind too much because I don't use it that much,
but still cool.
Brian, it says something about .pth,
I'm guessing path files.
Do you know anything about this?
I have no idea what those are.
- Oh, .pth files.
So there's, yeah, there are a way to,
I don't know a lot, I don't know the detail,
the real big details, but it's a way to have a,
you can have a list of different paths
within that file and if you import it,
or don't import it, if you include it in your path,
then Python I think includes all of the contents into,
anyway, actually I'm blown smoke, I don't know the details.
- Okay. - Sorry.
- Yeah, but apparently you can have a little more control
with PTH files, whatever those are, awesome.
Yeah, very cool. - Yeah, I don't
know much about that either, unfortunately.
- I mean, I've been using OS.path, so what do I know?
All right. (laughing)
Speaking of what do I know? I could definitely learn more about pandas and that's one of your items here. I Hannah. Yeah, so
I thought
Maybe I just give like a little snippet of kind of like some of the stuff I talk about in the book
Fantastic. So yeah
Here we go. So if we're looking at pandas in terms of like the dependency hierarchy
Well, and I guess I should start at the beginning.
So what is Pandas, if you're not familiar with it, it's a data analysis library for
Python.
So it's used for doing big data operations.
And so like if we look at the dependency hierarchy of Pandas, it kind of goes like Pandas, which
is dependent on NumPy, which deep down is dependent on this thing called BLOS, which
is basic linear algebra subprograms.
Right.
And wasn't there something with Bloss and Windows and a Windows update in a certain
version I think recently?
I can't remember.
I feel like there was some update.
Oh, there could be.
That thing that wasn't working.
Yeah, usually.
So there was a big challenge around NumPy and versioning and stuff to make it work in
the CI.
Yeah, usually the Bloss library is built into your OS already.
And it just points at that.
But if you're using something like Anaconda, I think by default it installs Intel MLK and
uses that.
But yeah, if you're using Linux or just out of the box, whatever's on Windows, which is
what it is if you pip install it, then yeah, there could certainly be issues with dependencies,
mismatches.
Yeah, so, and I've like greatly simplified this, but in terms of kind of like the languages
and walking down that dependency hierarchy, you start out in Python with pandas, and then
NumPy is partially Python and partially C, and then Bloss is pretty much always written
in assembly.
And if you don't know what assembly is, it's basically like a very, very, very, like probably
the lowest level language you can program in.
And it's essentially like a CPU instructions
for your processor.
And so I've taken this just like basic example here
and I'm gonna kind of like roll with it.
So if we're doing just like a basic addition in pandas,
say like we have column A
and we wanna add that with column B
and like store it back into column C.
- Like a traditional linear algebra vector addition.
Traditional vector math.
So pandas, like if you look at these operations,
each of these like additions on a per row basis is independent,
meaning like you could conceivably run like each of those additions for each row like in parallel.
Like there's no reason why you have to go like row by row.
And that's essentially like what kind of like big data analysis libraries are like at their core
their core is they understand this conceptually and try to parallelize things as much as possible.
And so that's kind of like the first fundamental understanding that you have to have when working
with pandas is you should be doing things in parallel as much as you can, which means
understanding the API and understanding which functions in the API will let you do things
in parallel.
So if we're just not using pandas at all,
say we're just inventing our own technique for this,
you might think, well, each of these rows
could be broken up into a thread.
So we could say thread one is going
to run the first row addition, and then thread two
is going to run the second row, et cetera.
But you might find that we'll run into issues
with this in terms of the gil.
So like the GIL is otherwise known as the global interpreter lock in Python
prevents us from really like running a multi-threaded app operation like in parallel.
Yeah, basically Python can run, the rule is it can run one Python opcode at a time.
Yeah.
And that's it, right? It doesn't matter if you've got, you know, 16 cores.
It's one at a time.
Yeah, yeah. And this is really terrible for trying to do things in parallel, right?
So that kind of use case is out.
Pandas and NumPy and all that stuff is not going to be able to use multithreading.
And so, and like, I just want to point out like Python, like at its core has this like fundamental problem, which is why they went with the GIL.
So like Python manages memory for you.
And how it does that is it keeps track of references to know when to free up memory.
So like when memory can be like completely destroyed
and somebody else can use it essentially.
And like that's something--
- Otherwise you gotta do stuff like,
Brian sometimes probably has to do with C
and like malloc and free and all those things, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
So like C you have to do this with yourself
with like malloc and free and all that stuff.
But with Python, it does it for you,
but that comes at a cost,
which means like every single object in Python
has this little like counter,
which is like a reference counter.
And so basically like way back in the day,
like when threading first became a thing,
like in order to kind of like avoid this threading problem,
they came up with the GIL,
which basically says you can only run one thread at a time
or like one opcode at a time as you said.
- Attempts have been made to remove it.
Like Larry Hastings has been working on something
called the Galectomy, the removal of the GIL for a while.
And the main problem is if you take it away,
the way it works now is you have to do locks
on all memory access, all variable access,
which actually has a bigger hit
than a lot of the benefits you would get,
at least in the single threaded case.
And I know Guido said,
look, we really don't want to make changes to this
if it's gonna mean slower single threaded Python.
So probably not for a while.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And that is a big problem.
So, I mean, generally what people use
instead of threads in Python is they use like multi-process
and they spin up multiple Python processes, right?
And like that truly kind of like achieves the parallelism.
But anyways, I digress.
So we can't use the GIL,
but what's interesting to note is when you're running NumPy
at its very low level in C,
like when you enter and look at the C files,
it actually is not subject to the GIL anymore because you're in C.
And so you can potentially run, you know,
multi-threaded things in C and call it from Python.
But beyond that, if we look at BLOS,
BLOS has built-in parallelization for hardware parallelization.
And how it does that is through vector registers.
So if you're not familiar with the architecture of CPUs and stuff,
at its core, you basically only can have a certain small set,
maybe three or four values in your CPU at any one time
that you're running adds and multiplies on.
And how that works is you load those values into the CPU from memory,
and that load can be quite time consuming.
it's really just based on how far away your memory is
from your CPU at the end of the day,
like physically on your board.
- Right, and your cache is hidden.
- Yes, yeah, and that's why we have caches.
So caches are memory that's closer to your CPU.
Consequently, it's also smaller.
But that's how you can kind of,
you might hear people say,
"Oh, so-and-so wrote this really performant program
"and it utilizes the size of the cache," or whatever.
So basically, if you can load all of that data
into your cache and run the operations on it
without ever having to go back out to memory,
you can make a really fast program.
- Yeah, yeah, it could be like a hundred times faster
than regular memory.
- Yeah, yeah, and so essentially,
that's what Bloss is trying to do underneath
and NumPy is they're trying to take this giant set of data
and break it into chunks and load those chunks
into your cache and operate on those chunks
and then dump them back out to memory
and load the next chunk.
- Very cool, thanks for pointing that out.
I didn't realize that Blast leveraged
some of the OS native stuff,
nor that it had special CPU instruction type optimizations.
That's pretty cool.
- Yeah, yeah.
So it has, on top of the registers,
it also has these things called vector registers,
which actually can hold like multiple values at a time in your CPU.
so like we could take this like simple example of,
like the addition and we could actually, well,
we can't run those like row per row calculations,
uh, in parallel with threads. We can with vector registers.
Okay.
and the limitation there is that the memory has to be a sequential when you load
it in.
This is definitely at a level lower
than I'm used to working at.
How about you, Brian?
(laughing)
- But yeah, so anyways, this is just like
kind of the stuff that I talk about in my book.
It's not necessarily about like how to use pandas,
but it's about like kind of like
what's going on underneath pandas.
And then like, once you kind of like
build that foundation of understanding,
like you can understand like better how pandas is working
and like how to use it correctly
and what all the various functions are doing.
- Fantastic, yeah, so people can check out your book.
Got a link to it in the show notes, so very nice.
It's not for me, the European, the Euro price,
which is fine, I don't mind, so.
- Yeah, so like, I mean, it's on Amazon too.
It's on a lot of different platforms,
but I figured I'd just point directly to the publishers.
- Yeah, no, that's perfect, that's perfect.
Quick comment, Roy Larson says,
NumPy and Intel MKL cause issues sometimes,
particularly on Windows if something else
in the system uses Intel MKL.
- Okay. - Yeah.
Interesting, I have no experience with that,
but I can believe it.
Intel has a lot of interesting stuff.
They even have a special Python compiled version,
I think, for Intel CPUs potentially.
I'm not sure, they have some high performance version.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, they do, yeah.
- Nice, also in Portland, speaking of keeping in Portland,
there we go.
- Now, before we move on to the next item,
let me tell you about our sponsor today.
Thank you to Datadog.
So they're sponsoring Datadog,
and if you're having trouble visualizing latency,
CPU, memory bottlenecks, things like that in your app,
and you don't know why,
you don't know where it's coming from or how to solve it,
you can use Datadog to correlate logs and traces
at the level of individual requests,
allowing you to quickly troubleshoot your Python app.
Plus, they have a continuous profiler
that allows you to find the most resource-consuming parts
of your production code all the time
at any scale with minimal overhead.
So you just point out your production server,
run it, which is not normally something
you want to do with diagnostic tools,
but you can with their continuous profiler, which
is pretty awesome.
So be the hero that got that app back on track at your company.
Get started with a free trial at pythonbytes.fm/datadog,
or just click the link in your podcast player show notes.
Now, I'm sure you all have heard that working with pickle
has all sorts of issues, right?
So pickle is a way to say, take my Python thing,
make a binary version of bits that
looks like that Python thing so I can go do stuff with it,
right?
That's generally got issues, not the least of which
actually are around the security stuff.
So to unpickle something, to deserialize it back,
is actually potentially running arbitrary code.
So people could send you a pickle virus.
I don't know what that is, like a rotten pickle or whatever.
That wouldn't be good.
So there's a library I came across
that solves a lot of the pickle problems.
It's supposed to be faster than pickle,
and it was cleverly named Quickle.
Have either of you heard of this thing?
- No.
- Yeah, it's cool, right?
So here's the deal.
It's a fast serialization format for a subset of Python types.
You can't pickle everything, but you can pickle way more,
say, than JSON.
And the reasons they give to use it are it's fast.
If you check out the benchmarks--
I'll pull those up in a second--
it's one of the fastest ways to serialize things in Python.
It's safe, which is important.
Unlike pickle, deserializing a user-provided message
does not allow arbitrary code execution.
Hooray.
That seems like a minimum bar.
Like, oh, I got stuff off the internet.
Let's try to execute that.
What's that going to do?
"Oh, look, it's reading all my files. That's nice."
(laughter)
It also is flexible because it supports more types.
We'll also learn about a bunch of other libraries
while we're at it here, which is kind of cool.
A bunch of things I heard of, like MSGPack,
or well, JSON, you may have heard of that.
The other main problem you get with some of these binary formats
is you can end up in a situation
where you can't read something if you make a change to your code.
So imagine I've got a user object and I've pickled them and put them into a Redis cache.
We upgrade our web app, which adds a new field to the user object.
That stuff is still in cache.
After we restart, we try to read it.
Oh, that stuff isn't there anymore.
You can't use your cache anymore.
Everything's broken, et cetera, et cetera.
So it has a concept of schema evolution, having different versions of, like, history.
So there's ways that older messages
can be read without errors, which is pretty cool.
- Yeah, that's nice.
- Yeah, neat, huh?
So I'll pull up the benchmarks.
There's actually a pretty cool little site here.
It shows you some examples on how to use it.
I mean, it's incredibly simple.
It's like, you know, dump this as a string,
read this, you know, deserialize this.
It's real simple.
So, but there's like quite a interesting analysis,
live analysis where you can click around
and you can actually look at like load speed
versus read serialize versus deserialize speed,
how much memory is used and things like that.
And it compares against pickle tuples,
protobuf, pickle itself, ORJSON, MSGPACK,
Quickle and Quickle structs.
There's a lot of things.
I mean, I knew about two of those, I think.
That's cool.
But these are all different ways.
And you can see, like in all these pictures,
generally, at least the top one
where it's time shorter is better, right?
So you can see, if you go with their quick-old struts,
it's a quick rule of thumb, maybe four or five times
faster than pickle, which I presume
is way faster than JSON, for example.
I don't know.
You'll also see the memory size, which actually varies by about
50% across the different things.
Also, speed of load in a whole bunch of different objects,
and so on.
So yeah, you can come check out these analysis here.
Let's see all the different libraries.
So we had, yeah, I guess we read them all off
basically there, but yeah, there's a bunch of different ways
which are, you know, not pickle itself
to do this kind of binary serialization,
which is pretty interesting, I think.
- It does protobuf, that's pretty cool.
Actually, I want to try this out.
So it looks neat.
- Yeah, it looks really neat, right?
- And one of the things,
I was just looking at the source code.
I love that they use pytest to test this.
Of course, you should use pytest.
But the, I can't believe I'm saying this,
but this would be the perfect package
to test with a Gherkin syntax, don't you think?
'Cause it's got the whole pickle thing.
- Oh my gosh, you've got to use the Gherkin syntax.
(laughing)
Yeah, you definitely should.
And Roy threw out another one like UQ Foundation.
DIL package deals with many of the same issues,
but because it's binary, it has all the same,
you know, sort of versioning challenges
might run into as well.
- DIL, the DIL package, that's funny.
(laughing)
- Yeah, pretty good, pretty good.
All right, so anyway, like, you know,
I'm kind of a fan of JSON these days.
I've had enough XML with custom namespaces in my life
that I really don't want to go down that path,
XSLT and all that, but, you know,
I've really shied away from these binary formats
for a lot of these reasons here,
but, you know, this might make me interested.
But if I was going to say throw something into a cache,
and the whole point is put it in the cache, get it back,
read it fast, this might be pretty decent.
Yeah.
Yeah, it definitely seems to address a lot of the concerns
I have with Pickle, for sure.
Yeah, and I don't--
did I talk about the types?
Somewhere in here we have-- yeah, here's--
so there's quite a list of types.
You know, one's really nice, date time.
Can't do that with JSON.
Why in the world doesn't JSON support some sort of time
information?
But you've got most of the fundamental types
that you might run into over here.
All right, so Quickle, give it a quick look.
All right, Brian, what you got here?
- Well, I was actually reading a different article,
but it came up, I think we've talked about
friendly traceback.
It's a package that just sort of tries to make
your tracebacks nicer.
But I didn't realize it had a console built in.
So I was pretty blown away by this.
So there's a, it's not trivial to get set up.
It's not that terrible,
but you have to start your own console,
start the REPL, import Friendly Traceback,
and then do Friendly Traceback start console.
But at that point, you have just like the normal console,
but you have better tracebacks.
And then also you have all these different cool functions
you can call, like what, where, why,
and explain and more.
And basically if something goes wrong
while you're playing with Python,
you can interrogate it and ask like for more information.
And that's just pretty cool.
The why is really great.
So if you have one of the examples I saw before,
and I think I might start using this when teaching people,
is we often have like exceptions,
like you assigned a none
or you assign it to something that can't be assigned
or you didn't match up the bracket and the parenthesis
or something like that correctly.
And you'll get like just syntax error
and it'll point to the syntax error,
but you might not know more.
So you can just type Y, W-H-Y with parentheses
it's a function and it'll tell you why.
>> Why? It's like the great storytelling,
the five why's of a bug.
>> So then you can say what to repeat what the error was,
why it will tell you why that was an error,
and then specifically what you did wrong,
and then where it will show you.
If you've been asking all sorts of questions and you
lost where the actual traceback was, you can say where and it'll point to directly to it.
And I think this is going to be cool.
I think I'll use this when trying to teach, especially kids, but really just people new
to Python.
Tracebacks can be very helpful for them.
Like even I know like I sometimes have to look up like certain error messages that I'm
like not familiar with.
So yeah, that would be super helpful.
I think you just do it right.
Yeah, I totally agree.
You're going to have to help me find a W that goes with this.
But I want what would be effectively Google open/closed services.
Because so often you get this huge trace back and you've got these errors.
And if you go through and select it, like for example the error you see on the screen,
unbound local error, local variable "greetings" in quotes referenced before assignments.
Well the quotes means oftentimes in search it must have the word "greeting."
And that's the one thing that is not relevant to the Googling of it.
So if I'm a beginner and I even try to Google that, I might get a really wrong message.
If you could say Google this in a way that is most likely going to find the error, but
without carrying through like variable details, file name details, but just the essence of
the error, that would be fantastic.
Now how do we say that with W?
You can just say, "Whoa!"
Or maybe www.
Or WTF.
I mean, come on, there's some options.
WTF.
Wouldn't that be great?
And so that's also part of this package that you see at their main site where you've got
these really cool visualized stuff, right?
Where it sort of more tries to tell you the problem or the error with the help text and
whatnot.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, this is cool. Also uses rich, which is a cool library we talked about.
Previously as well. I love rich. I include rich in everything now, even just just to print out simple, better tables. It's great.
For sure.
Hannah, do you see yourself using this? Or is it? Are you more more in notebooks?
Oh, no, I mean, I usually use like the PDB debugger.
So, yeah, I mean, I'm not sure if really that's what it is would be
like a problem.
I would depend on how much information it has about like obscure errors
from dependent libraries, which is usually what I end up looking at these days.
But yeah, I mean, conceivably, like, yeah, that could be helpful.
Yeah. If we get that WTF feature added, then yeah.
Oh, yeah, for sure. Gosh.
Speaking of errors, let's cover your last item, last item of the show.
Yeah, so I at work, work in the security org and I write like automation tools for them,
which means sometimes the repos that we work on, they get to be like test subjects for
new like requirements and such.
And so recently, our work was exploring like static code analysis, looking for like security
vulnerabilities in the code.
And so I ran across Bandit and I integrated Bandit into our...
We don't have time to go through these old legacy code and fix these problems.
Oh, wait, this is what it means?
Oh, sorry.
Yes, we can do that right now.
That's the kind of help you got from Bandit?
Yeah, exactly.
So yeah, we integrated Bandit into our legacy code base.
And we actually, it's funny you say that,
'cause the bug that I found using Bandit
was actually from the legacy code.
- That does not surprise me.
- Yeah, so it was a pretty stupid error.
It was pretty obvious if you were doing code review,
but because it was legacy code and it was already there,
I just never noticed.
but it was basically like issuing like a request
with like no verify.
So it was like an unverified like HTTP request.
And then it was like, no.
- This broken SSL certificate keeps breaking it.
I just told it to ignore it.
Oh, okay.
- Yeah, well, and I honestly,
like I think that might've been why it was there
in the first place.
'Cause I know like the, oh, like several years ago,
like had some certificate issues.
So yeah, that might be.
And it was like an internal talking to internal.
So it was like, maybe even a self-science certificate that nothing trusted, but they get technical.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was like, we'll just do that.
But yeah, so Bandit is basically like a linter, but it looks for security issues.
So you could just like pip install it and then just like run it on your code and it will find
a bunch of different potential security issues, like just by like statically analyzing your code.
And I've pretty much come to the opinion that,
why haven't I done this on all of my other projects?
I should be doing this on every single project.
'Cause as a developer, I always run
lint and black and stuff like that.
So I figured I should probably be running Bandit too.
- Yeah, cool.
Yeah, well, very nice.
That's a good recommendation for people as well,
and it's got a lot of cool.
You can go and actually see the list of the things that it tests for and even has
test plugins as well, which is pretty cool.
Yeah.
So you can like make your, make your own if you want.
and it has like all the common linter sort of like functionality, like ignore
these files or like ignore these rules or even like ignore this rule on this
particular line, stuff like that.
Yeah.
just pretty sweet.
I love that things like bandit are around because, thankfully,
developing web stuff is becoming easier and easier.
But it's then now the barrier to entry is lower.
You still have to have all the security concerns
that you had before that normal,
I mean, usually people were just had more experience,
but they would make mistakes anyway.
But now I think this is one of the reasons why I love this
is because people new to it might be terrified
about the security part,
but having a bandit on there,
looking over their shoulder is great.
Yeah, like don't publish with the debug setting on and Django or anything like that.
Simple, obvious stuff.
And like, honestly, like having worked in the security org for about a year now, like
I've come to the understanding that a lot of security issues stem from just like basic,
like duh, sort of configurations.
So like something like this is perfect.
- I really like that you added,
you wrote in the show notes,
some pre-commit, how to hook this up with pre-commit
because I think having it in pre-commit
or in a CI pipeline is important
because like you guys were joking about,
often security problems come in
because somebody is just trying to fix something that broke
but they don't really realize
how many other things it affects.
So.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I-- - We gotta make it work quick.
Just turn on the debug thing, we'll just look real quick
and then you forget to turn it off or whatever, yeah.
- Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, yeah, just stupid human errors.
- Nice, all right, I wanna go back real quick, Brian,
'cause your mention of friendly traceback
got a lot of stuff, so let me just do
a quick audience reaction.
Robert says, "It is cool, Brian."
John Sheehan says, "I was just thinking
"of something I was saying would be cool.
"It's a great teaching concept."
Anthony says, "Super useful."
John says, "I've been doing more demo code in the console rather than IDE.
This looks like it would help."
W, how to fix it.
W, wow, how.
W, I love it, Robert.
Very good.
Zach says, "What is this magic?
This looks amazing."
All right.
Well, thanks, everyone.
I'm glad you all liked that.
That's it for our main items.
Brian, you got any extras you want to throw out there?
You were doing something with climate change?
Or what are you doing this week?
Yeah, I'm sharing a room with some people.
Just a sec.
I did do two meetups with Noah, and then
with the Aberdeen Python meetup.
Wait, wait.
I got to interrupt you really quick.
Did all that talk that Hannah did about bandit viruses
get you?
I'm just kidding.
[LAUGHTER]
Sorry about that.
Carry on.
Did all this talk with Hannah, that Hannah had about viruses and hacking and stuff with
Bandit, did it make you nervous and you had to put on your mask?
No, I just, I'm in a group meeting in a group room and somebody came in.
I'm just teasing, carry on.
That's funny.
I also wanted to look like a bandit.
Yeah, exactly.
I was thrilled that Noah asked me to speak to them.
That was neat.
And then the Python Aberdeen people.
And also like, but they mentioned that Ian
from the Python Aberdeen group said that he had
an arrangement with you that when you, Michael,
that when the pandemic is over, you're gonna go over
and you're gonna do like a whiskey tour
or something like that.
- So I don't know the details,
but it sounds good to me already.
Let's make it happen.
- If that happens, I wanna go along.
- Yeah, it's a Python bytes adding, let's do it.
- And then we have, there are PDX West meetup tomorrow.
You're gonna speak, that's kind of exciting.
- Yeah, it's gonna be fun.
And people, it's virtual, so people can attend however.
- I'm also, I've got feedback from both you
and Matt Harrison gave me some feedback.
So I'm updating my training page on test and code.
So, because I really like working with teams.
So, and anybody else wants to give me feedback
on my training page, maybe I'd love to hear it.
- Yeah, or maybe they even wanna have some
high test training for their team.
- Yeah, I mean, testing is something that I think
teaching a team at a time is a great thing
because people can really, I don't know,
we can talk about their particular problems,
not general problems, it's good.
- Yeah, for sure.
Well, you also need more of a team buy-in on testing, right?
'Cause if one person writes code and won't write the test
and another person is really concerned
about making the test fast.
It's super frustrating when a person
doesn't want to run the test,
keeps breaking the build, but anyway,
it's a team sort of sport in that regard.
- Yep. - Yeah.
- All right, awesome.
So I got a couple of quick things.
PEP 634, structural pattern matching in Python
has been accepted for Python 3.10.
That's like, imagine a switch case
that has about 100 different options.
That's what it is.
like, like reg X, not quite, but sort of like style, like you can have like these
patterns and stuff that happen in the cases.
I don't know how to feel about this.
Like if, if, let me put a perspective, like if the Walrus
operator was controversial, like this is like, this is like a way bigger
change to the language, so I didn't know it.
It's both awesome and terrifying.
Yes, exactly.
Yeah.
I was surprised.
So my hand, like this got accepted.
It seemed to be sort of counter to the simplicity of Python.
Like I did not at all against having a simple switch statement that does certain things,
but this seems like a lot.
I may come to love it.
One thing that maybe would help me come to a better understanding and acceptance was if the
pet page had at least one example of it in use, like the whole page that talks about all the
details says, I don't believe there's a single code sample ever.
Well, there's a tutorial page as well.
So is there, there's the tutorial page.
Okay.
Maybe that's where I should go and check it out.
Yeah.
But it still sort of feels like a five barrel foot gun.
Yeah, it does.
Well, but the page that I'm looking--
the pip thing that I'm listing to, the official PEP,
I don't think it has--
does it have the tutorial?
Yeah, no, you're right.
It does.
It's somewhere down.
Yeah, PEP 636.
Yeah, it's a different PEP that is the tutorial for the PEP.
Interesting.
I didn't realize that.
It's kind of meta, honestly.
Anyway, to me, I'm a little surprised this is accepted.
It's fine.
I know people worked really hard on it, and congratulations.
A lot of people really want it.
It comes from Haskell.
So Haskell had this pattern matching alternate struct thing.
I don't know.
I just feel like Haskell and Python are far away from each other.
So that's my first impression.
I will probably come to love it at some point.
PyCon registration is open.
So if you want to go to PyCon, you want to attend and be more part of it
than just watching the live stream on YouTube, be part of that.
I think I'm going to try to make a conscious effort
to attend the virtual conference, not just catch some videos.
So you can do that.
- Yeah, PyCon is awesome.
Like just, I, my first conference was PyCon
and then I went to other conferences
and I was like, what are wrong with these conferences?
Like, why do they suck so much?
- I know, I feel the same way.
I know.
It's really, really special.
I'm sure the virtual one will be good.
I can't wait for the in-person stuff to come back
'cause it really is--
- For sure.
Yeah, it's a whole nother experience in person.
- I consider it basically my geek holiday
I get away and just get a hang out with my geek friends. I happen to learn stuff while I'm there.
>> Totally. >> And then Python web conf is coming up.
And that's registration is open for that as well. And I suppose probably PyCascades,
which Brian and I are on a panel at there as well. I put a link into an hour of code for Minecraft,
which has to do with programming Minecraft with Python. If people are looking to teach kids stuff,
That looks pretty neat.
So, my daughter's super into Minecraft.
I don't do anything with it.
But if you are and you want to make it part
of your curriculum, that's pretty cool.
Hannah, anything you want to throw out there
before we break out the joke?
- Nope, I'm good.
- Awesome.
- Damn it, damn it.
- All right, so this one, we have something
a little more interactive for everyone.
We've got a song about Pep8, about writing clean code.
This is written and produced and sung by Leon Sandoy.
It goes by Lemon.
Him and his team over at Python Discord, he runs Python Discord, and apparently it was
a team effort creating this.
The reason I'm covering this is a bunch of people sent it over.
Michael Rogers, Valet, sent it over, "You should cover this.
Dan Bader said, 'Check this out.'
Alan McElroy said, 'Hey, check out this thing.'"
All right.
I actually spoke to Lemon and said, "Hey, do you mind if we play this?"
He said, "No, that'd be awesome.
Just give us a shout, of course."
We're going to actually play the song as part of this.
In the live stream, you get the video.
On the audio, you get, well, audio.
So I'll kick this off, and we'll come back.
And I'd love to hear Brian and Hannah's thoughts.
Here we go.
[MUSIC - BRIAN AND HANNAH, "CURLY BRACES"]
You don't need any curly braces just for spaces.
just for spaces.
Wildcard imports should be avoided
in most cases, in most cases.
Try to make sure there's no trailing whitespace.
It's confusing, it's confusing.
Trailing commas go behind list items
Get blamed, titans
And comments are important
As long as they're maintained
When comments are misleading
It will drive people insane
Just try to be empathic
Just try to be a friend
It's really not that hard, just adhere to
PEPPAID
Constants should be named all capital letters
And live forever, live forever
And camel case is not for Python
never ever
And never use a bare exception
be specific
No one likes the horizontal scrollbar
Keep it
Keep it succinct
And comments are important
As long as they're maintained
When comments are misleading
It will drive people insane
Just try to be empathic
Just try to be a friend
It's really not that hard
Just adhere to
What do y'all think?
That was amazing.
I like, I can sympathize with like so many of the things.
I'm just like flashbacks to like a discussion I had with my teammate about like comments.
No, this comment doesn't actually describe what the code is doing.
It's worse than having no comment. It really is.
It really is. Yeah. Or like, if it describes like, literally what the code is doing and not like,
you know, kind of like high level.
Background or anything other than...
The why, the why is important.
I love it. So two things, Lemon and team, well done on the song and man, you got a great voice.
That's actually, it was beautiful and funny. Yeah.
All right. Well, Brian, we probably should wrap it up. Otherwise you got to.
Yeah. These people are going to lynch me if I squat in here.
All right. Well, Hannah, thanks so much for being here. It's good to have you on the show.
And Brian, thanks as always. Everyone, thanks for listening.
Thanks.
Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]